What's New in v9.4 (#59614)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v9-4.md

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/navigation/navigation-9-4.png" max-width="750px" caption="Grafana new navigation" >}}

## Auditing and Usage Insights: Support for Loki multi-tenancy

_This feature is available for Enterprise customers_
This feature adds support to push analytics events and auditing logs to Loki with multi-tenancy mode, by specifying a tenant id.

## Reporting: Enable changing the report scale factor

_This feature is available for Enterprise customers_
Scale factor is a new feature for reports that allows users to change the dimension of the panels of the PDF document. It allows you to show more columns in the tables zooming out or show panels bigger zooming in.
You can modify the scale factor for each report in the report editor and/or when you share the whole PDF directly from the dashboard page.

{{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/FormatReportScheduler9.4.png" max-width="750px" caption="Scale factor feature in Report format page" >}}

{{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/FormatReportShare9.4.png" max-width="750px" caption="Scale factor feature in Share functionality" >}}

> ## Dashboard panel redesign

Reviewer: @imatwawana Made a couple of changes because in the end we added the head-less panel. Feel free to change it tho :)

---
aliases:
  - /docs/grafana/latest/guides/whats-new-in-v9-4/
description: Feature and improvement highlights for Grafana v9.4
keywords:
  - grafana
  - new
  - documentation
  - '9.4'
  - release notes
title: What's new in Grafana v9.4
weight: -33
---

# What’s new in Grafana v9.4

Welcome to Grafana 9.4! Read on to learn about [add short list of what's included in this release]. For even more detail about all the changes in this release, refer to the [changelog](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
aliases:
  - /docs/grafana/latest/guides/whats-new-in-v9-4/
description: Feature and improvement highlights for Grafana v9.4
keywords:
  - grafana
  - new
  - documentation
  - '9.4'
  - release notes
title: What's new in Grafana v9.4
weight: -33
---

# What’s new in Grafana v9.4

Welcome to Grafana 9.4! Read on to learn about [add short list of what's included in this release]. For even more detail about all the changes in this release, refer to the [changelog](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

> ## Feature
> 
> [Generally available | Available in experimental/beta] in Grafana [Open Source, Enterprise, Cloud Free, Cloud Pro, Cloud Advanced]
> 
> Description. Include an overview of the feature and problem it solves, and where to learn more (like a link to the docs).
> 
> > **Note:** You must use relative references when linking to docs within the Grafana repo. Please do not use absolute URLs. For more information about relrefs, refer to [Links and references](/docs/writers-toolkit/writing-guide/references/).

Author: ```suggestion
```

{{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/FormatReportScheduler9.4.png" max-width="750px" caption="Scale factor feature in Report format page" >}}

{{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/FormatReportShare9.4.png" max-width="750px" caption="Scale factor feature in Share functionality" >}}

## Dashboard panel redesign

Dashboard panels hold a lot of information, some of which is difficult to discover or access entirely from the dashboard itself. With our redesigned panels, we've improved accessibility and made it easier to understand the status of a panel by adding and moving key elements.

We’ve rethought the panel information architecture, added additional interaction points, and reduced visual clutter. To start, we’ve improved the support of panels without a header, made a distinction between details set by you and data-induced information, and then included all essential components in the header of the panel. All of these are laid out from left to right in a row, so there are no overlapping, unusable components.

Grafana’s new panel is available only for React-based panels; no Angular-based panels will have the redesign (i.e., they’ll have the old Graph and Table visualizations).

> {{< video-embed src="/media/docs/grafana/screen-recording-panel-header-redesign-whats-new-9-4.mp4>" >}}

Reviewer: We've added a view as it feels the new panel header is hard to grasp without it, but I understand it might be too heavy. Let us know if we should remove it or find something else.

Read more about using the command palette [in the documentation.](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/search/)

{{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/screenshot-grafana-94-command-palette.png" max-width="750px" caption="Grafana command palette" >}}

## New navigation

_Generally available on Grafana Cloud, and available to preview using the `topnav` feature toggle in all editions of Grafana._

The navigation in Grafana has been updated with a new design and an improved structure to make it easier for you to access the data you need. With this update, you'll be able to quickly navigate between features, giving you full visibility into the health of your systems.

The new navigation is gradually rolling out to all users on Grafana Cloud. If you’re using Grafana Open Source and Enterprise, you can enable this feature using the `topnav` feature toggle.

_Note:_ The Grafana documentation has not yet been updated to reflect changes to the navigation.

{{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/navigation-9-4.png" max-width="750px" caption="Grafana new navigation" >}}

# Dashboards and visualizations

## Dashboard panel redesign

> _Available to Preview using the `newPanelChromeUI` feature toggle in all editions of Grafana_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Available to preview using the `newPanelChromeUI` feature toggle in all editions of Grafana_
```

`oauth_auto_login`, use the new `auto_login` option to enable automatic login for specific OAuth providers.

## Loki datasource query validation

We added support to validate queries and visually display errors as a query is being written, without having to execute it to receive this feedback. This feature supports single and multi-line queries, with and without variables.

{{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/logs-loki-query-validation-whats-new-9-4.png" max-width="750px" caption="Loki query validation" >}}

## Loki logs sample in Explore

For Loki metric queries in Explore, you are now able to see the sample of log lines that contributed to the displayed results. To see these logs, click on the collapsed "Logs sample" panel under your graph or table panel. If you would like to interact with your log lines or modify the log query, click on the "Open logs in split view" button and the log query will be executed in the split view.

{{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/logs-sample-whats-new-9-4.png" max-width="750px" caption="Logs sample in Explore" >}}

## New data source connection page in Dashboards and Explore

> When you start your journey to create a dashboard or explore your data, but you have no data source connected yet, you’ll be presented with a page that informs you of this and guides you to set up a first connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you start your journey to create a dashboard or explore your data, but you don't have a data source connected yet, you’ll be shown a page that tells you this and guides you to set up a first connection.
```

> Administrators can choose between selecting one of the most popular data sources or viewing the full list of data sources. Editors are guided to contact their administrator to configure data sources. In both cases, there's also an option to continue without setting up a data source and to use sample data instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Administrators can choose between selecting one of the most popular data sources or viewing the full list of them. Editors are guided to contact their administrator to configure data sources. In both cases, there's also an option to continue without setting up a data source and to use sample data instead.
```
